---
title: What is Happiness
layout: post
date: 2014-03-28 16:33

---

Perception of Happiness is highly subjective. In fact it could even be so
contradictory among two individuals that ones recreational activity may look
entirely ridiculous to other. However perception of happiness is now a days to
very much extent affected by popular media- TV, Movies, MTV :) - people are
constantly bombarded with the idea of what is happiness and what is cool
through this medium and even worst; this is the only medium they collect this
information through.

Now my complaint is not against these people (may be a little). But rather a
concern for that minority population that does not find any gratification in
these perceived superior gratifying activities. They are frowned upon for
having non mainstream interests. Getting laughed at because you are seen
reading a book about Stoicism. Post modern urbanized world just seems so
unnatural. A loner is stereotyped as a loser. Introverted is mistaken for
stupid, sad and lacking confidence. Opportunities are given based on first
impressions, setting open stage for impostors and charlatans.

But its not all that bad either. A few of those impostors and charlatans may
get through and achieve some success because the system is not perfect but real
winners after all are the ones who are genuine and sincere. They may look naive
but are so more by choice than due to lack of awareness.

Any way coming back to happiness; it is established centuries ago by
philosophers that it is not something objective. And those who think philosophy
is hogwash it is also now scientifically proven by neurologists that your brain
can be trained to accept any thing as happiness 
(see this [TED Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4q1dgn_C0AU)). And that is what happens when
you consume too much idiotic media (TV essentially). Your frontal lobe of brain
is a great simulator(and a malfunctioning one) that basically hypes the future
outcome of any event. Which also leads you to believe something will make you
immensely happy but in reality the gratification might be insignificant.

Don't let external factors define your happiness. Define your own that is more
meaningful, sustainable and of social value.
